Astronomers still cannot account for 95% of the universe. Atoms, which were discovered to make up the world around us, is apparently only 5% of the universe’s makeup. In recent years, astronomers have postulated that a big portion of the remaining 95% may be a sort of dark matter or energy, but the question still remains to be answered.

In anthropology it’s clear that this is a universal question that each culture and religion has tried to answer. Scientists show that life began with simple chemicals that came together and became the first replicating molecules. However, scientists are still arguing about how these first chemicals arranged themselves, or how DNA was formed, etc. Scientists also argue about the circumstances of these first chemicals, with some believing that they originated in hot pools, while others believe it began with meteorites colliding with water.  
Astronomers have been searching the universe for signs of other life as well as habitable planets. Astronomers have created radio telescopes which pick up messages from other planets, as well as scan atmospheres of other planets to detect habitable conditions which might be home to other lifeforms. The scans have revealed a whopping 60 billion habitable planets in the Milky Way.

Scientists (and philosophers, for that matter) have been trying to discover what makes us uniquely human and distinguishable from animals. DNA itself shows little differentiation between humans and apes. The human genome is 99% identical to a chimpanzee’s, for example, and 50% identical to various vegetation. Humans have been thought to be different based on intelligence, language, and the utilization of tools, but all these theories have been disproved by studying animals who show the same traits. Some scientists believe the brains of humans were enlarged by the unique use of fire and cooking; others believe that humans have a unique ability for cooperation and skill-trading which allows us to create civilizations. 
We are not sure what consciousness is, where it is located in the brain, or why we are conscious. Scientists agree that consciousness is made up of a network of brain regions as opposed to one particular part, but other than that, the question of consciousness is still puzzling for both scientists and philosophers. 
The question of sleep and dreams have been an intriguing topic for scientists and psychologists alike. The famous Sigmund Freud believed that dreams expressed unfulfilled desires, while others believe that dreams are merely random firings of the brain. Recent studies on animals, using brain imaging technology, have showcased that sleep and dreams play a significant role in memory, learning, and emotions. 
Astrology is a method of predicting mundane events based upon the assumption that the celestial bodies—particularly the planets and the stars considered in their arbitrary combinations or configurations (called constellations)—in some way either determine or indicate changes in the sublunar world. The theoretical basis for this assumption lies historically in Hellenistic philosophy and radically distinguishes astrology from the celestial omina (“omens”) that were first categorized and cataloged in ancient Mesopotamia. Originally, astrologers presupposed a geocentric universe in which the “planets” (including the Sun and Moon) revolve in orbits whose centres are at or near the centre of the Earth and in which the stars are fixed upon a sphere with a finite radius whose centre is also the centre of the Earth. Later the principles of Aristotelian physics were adopted, according to which there is an absolute division between the eternal, circular motions of the heavenly element and the limited, linear motions of the four sublunar elements: fire, air, water, earth.

Special relations were believed to exist between particular celestial bodies and their varied motions, configurations with each other, and the processes of generation and decay apparent in the world of fire, air, water, and earth. These relations were sometimes regarded as so complex that no human mind could completely grasp them; thus, the astrologer might be readily excused for any errors. A similar set of special relations was also assumed by those whose physics was more akin to that of the Greek philosopher Plato. For the Platonic astrologers, the element of fire was believed to extend throughout the celestial spheres, and they were more likely than the Aristotelians to believe in the possibility of divine intervention in the natural processes through celestial influences upon the Earth, since they believed in the deity’s creation of the celestial bodies themselves.

The role of the divine in astrological theory varies considerably. In its most rigorous aspect, astrology postulates a totally mechanistic universe, denying to the deity the possibility of intervention and to man that of free will; as such, it was vigorously attacked by orthodox Christianity and Islam. For some, however, astrology is not an exact science like astronomy but merely indicates trends and directions that can be altered either by divine or by human will. In the interpretation of Bardesanes, a Syrian Christian scholar (154–c. 222)—who has often been identified as a Gnostic (a believer in esoteric salvatory knowledge and the view that matter is evil and spirit good)—the motions of the stars govern only the elemental world, leaving the soul free to choose between the good and the evil. Man’s ultimate goal is to attain emancipation from an astrologically dominated material world. Some astrologers, such as the Harranians (from the ancient Mesopotamian city of Harran) and the Hindus, regard the planets themselves as potent deities whose decrees can be changed through supplication and liturgy or through theurgy, the science of persuading the gods or other supernatural powers. In still other interpretations—e.g., that of the Christian Priscillianists (followers of Priscillian, a Spanish ascetic of the 4th century who apparently held dualistic views)—the stars merely make manifest the will of God to those trained in astrological symbolism.
Significance of astral omens
The view that the stars make manifest the divine will is closest to the concept that lies behind the ancient Mesopotamian collections of celestial omens. Their primary purpose was to inform the royal court of impending disaster or success. These might take the forms of meteorological or epidemic phenomena affecting entire human, animal, or plant populations. Frequently, however, they involved the military affairs of the state or the personal lives of the ruler and his family. Since the celestial omina were regarded not as deterministic but rather as indicative—as a kind of symbolic language in which the gods communicated with men about the future and as only a part of a vast array of ominous events—it was believed that their unpleasant forebodings might be mitigated or nullified by ritual means or by contrary omens. The bāru (the official prognosticator), who observed and interpreted the celestial omina, was thus in a position to advise his royal employer on the means of avoiding misfortunes; the omens provided a basis for intelligent action rather than an indication of an inexorable fate.

Purposes of astrology
The original purpose of astrology, on the other hand, was to inform the individual of the course of his life on the basis of the positions of the planets and of the zodiacal signs (the 12 astrological constellations) at the moment of his birth or conception. From this science, called genethlialogy (casting nativities), were developed the fundamental techniques of astrology. The main subdivisions of astrology that developed after genethlialogy are general, catarchic, and interrogatory.

General astrology studies the relationship of the significant celestial moments (e.g., the times of vernal equinoxes, eclipses, or planetary conjunctions) to social groups, nations, or all of humanity. It answers, by astrological means, questions formerly posed in Mesopotamia to the bāru.

Catarchic (pertaining to beginnings or sources) astrology determines whether or not a chosen moment is astrologically conducive to the success of a course of action begun in it. Basically in conflict with a rigorous interpretation of genethlialogy, it allows the individual (or corporate body) to act at astrologically favourable times and, thereby, to escape any failures predictable from his (or its) nativity.

Interrogatory astrology provides answers to a client’s queries based on the situation of the heavens at the moment of his posing the questions. This astrological consulting service is even more remote from determinism than is catarchic astrology; it is thereby closer to divination by omens and insists upon the ritual purification and preparation of the astrologer.

Other forms of astrology, such as iatromathematics (application of astrology to medicine) and military astrology, are variants on one or another of the above.

Historical development
Astral omens in the ancient Middle East
The astral omens employed in Mesopotamian divination were later commingled with what came to be known as astrology in the strict sense of the term and constituted within astrology a branch described as natural astrology. Though lunar eclipses apparently were regarded as ominous at a somewhat earlier period, the period of the 1st dynasty of Babylon (18th to 16th centuries BC) was the time when the cuneiform text Enūma Anu Enlil, devoted to celestial omina, was initiated. The final collection and codification of this series, however, was not accomplished before the beginning of the 1st millennium BC. But the tablets that have survived—mainly from the Assyrian library of King Ashurbanipal (7th century BC)—indicate that a standard version never existed. Each copy had its own characteristic contents and organization designed to facilitate its owner’s consultation of the omens.

The common categories into which the omens of Enūma Anu Enlil were considered to fall were four, named after the chief gods involved in the ominous communication: Sin, Shamash, Adad, and Ishtar. Sin (the Moon) contains omens involving such lunar phenomena as first crescents, eclipses, halos, and conjunctions with various fixed stars; Shamash (the Sun) deals with omens involving such solar phenomena as eclipses, simultaneous observations of two suns, and perihelia (additional suns); Adad (the weather god) is concerned with omens involving meteorological phenomena, such as thunder, lightning, and cloud formations, as well as earthquakes; and Ishtar (Venus) contains omens involving planetary phenomena such as first and last visibilities, stations (the points at which the planets appear to stand still), acronychal risings (rising of the planet in the east when the Sun sets in the west), and conjunctions with the fixed stars.

Though these omens are often cited in the reports of a network of observers established throughout the Assyrian empire in the 7th century BC, they seem to have lost their popularity late in the period of the Persian domination of Mesopotamia (ending in the 4th century BC). During the later period new efforts were made, in a large number of works called Diaries, to find the correct correlations between celestial phenomena and terrestrial events. Before this development, however, portions of the older omen series were transmitted to Egypt, Greece, and India as a direct result of Achaemenid domination (the Achaemenian dynasty ruled in Persia from 559 to 330 BC) of these cultural areas or of their border regions.

Astral omens in Egypt, Greece, India, and China
The evidence for a transmission of lunar omens to Egypt in the Achaemenian period lies primarily in a demotic papyrus based on an original of about 500 BC. A more extensive use of Mesopotamian celestial omens is attested by the fragments of a book written in Greek in the 2nd century BC and claimed as a work addressed to a King Nechepso by the priest Petosiris. From this source, among others, the contents of Enūma Anu Enlil were included in the second book of the Apotelesmatika, or “Work on Astrology” (commonly called the Tetrabiblos, or “Four Books”), by Ptolemy, a Greek astronomer of the 2nd century AD; the first book of an astrological compendium, by Hephaestion of Thebes, a Greco-Egyptian astrologer of the 5th century AD; and the On Signs of John Lydus, a Byzantine bureaucrat of the 6th century. Yet another channel of transmission to the Greeks was through the Magusaeans of Asia Minor, a group of Iranian settlers influenced by Babylonian ideas. Their teachings are preserved in several Classical works on natural history, primarily that of Pliny the Elder (c. AD 23–79), and the Geoponica (a late collection of agricultural lore).

In various Middle Eastern languages there also exist many texts dealing with celestial omens, though their sources and the question as to whether they are directly descended from a Mesopotamian tradition or are derived from Greek or Indian intermediaries is yet to be investigated. Of these texts the most important are those ascribed to Hermes Trismegistos by the Harranians and now preserved in Arabic, the Book of the Zodiac of the Mandaeans (a Gnostic sect still existing in Iraq and Khuzistan), the Apocalypse, attributed to the biblical prophet Daniel (extant in Greek, Syriac, and Arabic versions), and The Book of the Bee in Syriac.

The transmission of Mesopotamian omen literature to India, including the material in Enūma Anu Enlil, apparently took place in the 5th century BC during the Achaemenid occupation of the Indus valley. The first traces are found in Buddhist texts of this period, and Buddhist missionaries were instrumental in carrying this material to Central Asia, China, Tibet, Japan, and Southeast Asia. But the most important of the works of this Indian tradition and the oldest extant one in Sanskrit is the earliest version of the as-yet-unpublished Gargasamhita (“Compositions of Garga”) of about the 1st century AD. The original Mesopotamian material was modified so as to fit into the Indian conception of society, including the system of the four castes and the duty of the upper castes to perform the samskaras (sanctifying ceremonies).

There are numerous later compilations of omens in Sanskrit—of which the most notable are the Brhatsamhita, or “Great Composition,” of Varahamihira (c. 550), the Jain Bhadrabahu-samhita, or “Composition of Bhadrabahu” (c. 10th century), and the Parishishtas (“Supplements”) of the Atharvaveda (perhaps 10th or 11th century)—though these add little to the tradition. But in the works of the 13th century and later, entitled Tājika, there is a massive infusion of the Arabic adaptations of the originally Mesopotamian celestial omens as transmitted through Persian (Tājika) translations. In Tājika the omens are closely connected with general astrology; in the earlier Sanskrit texts their connections with astrology had been primarily in the fields of military and catarchic astrology.

Astrology in the Hellenistic period (3rd century BC to 3rd century AD)
In the 3rd century BC and perhaps somewhat earlier, Babylonian diviners began—for the purpose of predicting the course of an individual’s life—to utilize some planetary omens: positions relative to the horizon, latitudes, retrogressions, and other positions at the moment of birth or of computed conception. This method was still far from astrology, but its evolution was more or less contemporary and parallel with the development of the science of genethlialogy in Hellenistic Egypt.

Equally obscure are those individuals who, living in Egypt under the Ptolemies (a Greek dynasty ruling 305–30 BC), mathematicized the concept of a correspondence between the macrocosm (“larger order,” or universe) and the microcosm (“smaller order,” or man) as interpreted in terms of Platonic or Aristotelian theories concerning the Earth as the centre of the planetary system. They conceived of the ecliptic (the apparent orbital circle of the Sun) as being divided into 12 equal parts, or zodiacal signs, each of which consists of 30°; in this they followed the Babylonians. They further regarded each of these 12 signs as the domicile (or house) of a planet and subdivided each into various parts—decans of 10° each, fines (“bounds”) of varying lengths, and dōdecatēmoria of 2°30′ each—each of which is also dominated by a planet. Scattered at various points throughout the ecliptic are the planets’ degrees of exaltation (high influence), opposite to which are their degrees of dejection (low influence). Various arcs of the zodiac, then, are either primarily or secondarily subject to each planet, whose strength and influence in a geniture (nativity) depend partially on its position relative to these arcs and to those of its friends and enemies.

Furthermore, each zodiacal sign has a special relation with a part of the human body. The 12 signs are further divided into four triplicities, each of which governs one of the four elements. Numerous pairs of opposites (male-female, diurnal-nocturnal, hot-cold, and others), based on the speculations of the followers of Pythagoras, a Greek mystical philosopher of the 6th century BC, are connected with consecutive pairs of signs. Finally, a wide variety of substances in the elemental world and attributes of human character are more or less arbitrarily associated with the different signs. These lists of interrelationships provide the rationale for many of the astrologer’s predictions.

An individual planet’s influences are related both to its general indications when regarded as ominous in Mesopotamian texts and to the traits of its presiding deity in Greek mythology. But on them are also superimposed the system of the four elements and their four qualities, the Pythagorean opposites, and lists of sublunar substances. Furthermore, as in the omens, the modes of the planetary motions are carefully considered, since their strengths are partially determined by their phases with respect to the Sun. Also, they exert a mutual influence both by occupying each other’s houses and by means of conjunction and aspects—opposition (to the 7th) and quartile (to the 4th or 10th) generally being considered bad, trine (to the 5th or 9th) and sextile (to the 3rd or 11th) good.
Moreover, as the planetary orbits revolve from west to east, the zodiac rotates daily about the Earth in the opposite sense. From a given spot on the Earth’s surface this latter motion—if the ecliptic were a visible circle—would appear as a succession of signs rising one after the other above the eastern horizon. Astrologers regard the one that is momentarily in the ascendant as the first place, the one to follow it as the second, and so on, with the one that rose immediately prior to the ascendant being the 12th. In genethlialogy each place in this dōdecatropos determines an aspect of the life of the native (one born under a particular sign); in other forms of astrology the place determines some appropriate aspect of the sublunar world.

Astrologers, then, cast a horoscope by first determining for the given moment and locality the boundaries of the 12 places and the longitudes and latitudes of the seven planets. They read this horoscope by examining the intricate geometric interrelationships of the signs and their parts and of the planets of varying computed strengths with the places and each other and by associating with each element in the horoscope its list of sublunary correspondences. Any horoscopic diagram, of course, will yield a vast number of predictions, including many that are contradictory or extravagant. Astrologers thus must rely on their knowledge of the client’s social, ethnic, and economic background and on their own experience to guide them in avoiding error and attaining credibility.

Since about 100 BC the above method has been the essential procedure of astrology, though various refinements and additional devices occasionally have been introduced, including those associated with the Hermetic tradition of Hermes Trismegistos and with Dorotheus of Sidon, an influential astrological poet of the third quarter of the 1st century AD. One is the system of lots, which are influential points as distant from some specified points in the horoscopic diagram as two planets are from each other. A second is the prorogator, a point on the ecliptic that, traveling at the rate of one degree of oblique ascension a year toward either the descendant or ascendant, determines a person’s length of life. Another is the method of continuous horoscopy, under which anniversary diagrams are compared with the base nativity to provide annual readings. And, finally, certain periods of life are apportioned to their governing planets in a fixed sequence; these period governors in turn share their authority with the other planets by granting them subperiods.

Astrology after the Hellenistic period
In India
Greek astrology was transmitted to India in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD by means of several Sanskrit translations, of which the one best known is that made in AD 149/150 by Yavaneshvara and versified as the Yavanajataka by Sphujidhvaja in AD 269/270. The techniques of Indian astrology are thus not surprisingly similar to those of its Hellenistic counterpart. But the techniques were transmitted without their philosophical underpinnings (for which the Indians substituted divine revelation), and the Indians modified the predictions, originally intended to be applied to Greek and Roman society, so that they would be meaningful to them. In particular, they took into account the caste system, the doctrine of metempsychosis (transmigration of souls), the Indian theory of five elements (earth, water, air, fire, and space), and the Indian systems of values.

The Indians also found it useful to make more elaborate the already complex methodology of Hellenistic astrology. They added as significant elements the nakshatras (or lunar mansions), an elaborate system of three categories of yogas (or planetary combinations), dozens of different varieties of dashas (periods of the planets) and antardashas (subperiods), and a complex theory of ashtakavarga based on continuous horoscopy. The number of subdivisions of the zodiacal signs was increased by the addition of the horas (15° each), the saptamshas (4 2/7° each), and the navamshas (3°20′ each); the number of planets was increased by the addition of the nodes of the Moon (the points of intersection of the lunar orbit with the ecliptic) and of a series of upagrahas, or imaginary planets. Several elements of Hellenistic astrology and its Sāsānian offshoot (see below), however—including the lots, the prorogator, the Lord of the Year, the triplicities, and astrological history—were introduced into India only in the 13th century through the Tājika texts. Besides genethlialogy, the Indians particularly cultivated military astrology and a form of catarchic astrology termed muhurta-shastra and, to a lesser extent, iatromathematics and interrogatory astrology.

In Sāsānian Iran
Shortly after Ardashīr I founded the Sāsānian empire in AD 226, a substantial transmission of both Greek and Indian astrology to Iran took place. There were Pahlavi (Iranian language) translations of Dorotheus of Sidon, Vettius Valens, Hermes, and an Indian called (in the Arabic sources) Farmasp. Since the Pahlavi originals are all lost, these translations provided the only knowledge of the Sāsānian science. Genethlialogy in Iran was essentially an imitation of the Hellenistic (though without any philosophy), onto which were grafted some Indian features, such as the navamshas and a Shaivite interpretation of illustrations of the Greco-Egyptian deities of the decans. The most influential and characteristic innovation of the Sāsānian astrologers was the development of the theory of astrological history—that is, the writing of history, both past and future, on the basis of extensions of the techniques of the prorogator, the Lord of the Year, the planetary periods, and the continuous horoscopy employed in Hellenistic genethlialogy. This was done in conjunction with Zoroastrian millenarianism (the division of the finite duration of the material creation into 12 millennia).

In Islam
Astrology entered Islamic civilization in the 8th and 9th centuries in three simultaneous streams—Hellenistic, Indian, and Sāsānian. Arabic translations from the Greek and Syriac represented the Hellenistic science, from Sanskrit the Indian version, and from Pahlavi the Sāsānian combination of the two. Through the work of Abū Maʿshar in the 9th century, Islamic astrology added to these influences the Harranian adaptation of the Neoplatonic definition of the mode of astral influences in terms of Aristotelian physics. Abū Maʿshar further elaborated Sāsānian astrological history and greatly expanded the number of lots that an astrologer had to take into consideration. Much attention was paid by the Muslims to catarchic and interrogatory astrology, but, under attack by the theologians for denying divine intervention in the world and man’s free will, astrology rapidly declined in its appeal to Muslim intellectuals after the Mongol invasions of the 13th century, though not before its influence had spread in India, the Latin West, and Byzantium.
More than four decades have passed since a human first set foot on the Moon. Great strides have been made since in our understanding of what is required to support an enduring human presence in space, as evidenced by progressively more advanced orbiting human outposts, culminating in the current International Space Station (ISS). However, of the more than 500 humans who have so far ventured into space, most have gone only as far as near-Earth orbit, and none have traveled beyond the orbit of the Moon. Achieving humans’ further progress into the solar system has proved far more difficult than imagined in the heady days of the Apollo missions, but the potential rewards remain substantial. Overcoming the challenges posed by risk and cost—and developing the technology and capabilities to make long space voyages feasible—is an achievable goal. Further, the scientific accomplishments required to meet this goal will bring a deeper understanding of the performance of people, animals, plants, microbes, materials, and engineered systems not only in the space environment but also on Earth, providing terrestrial benefits by advancing fundamental knowledge in these areas.

During its more than 50-year history, NASA’s success in human space exploration has depended on the agency’s ability to effectively address a wide range of biomedical, engineering, physical science, and related obstacles—an achievement made possible by NASA’s strong and productive commitments to life and physical sciences research for human space exploration, and by its use of human space exploration infrastructures for scientific discovery.* This partnership of NASA with the research community reflects the original mandate from Congress in 1958 to promote science and technology, an endeavor that requires an active and vibrant research program. The committee acknowledges the many achievements of NASA, which are all the more remarkable given budgetary challenges and changing directions within the agency. In the past decade, however, a consequence of those challenges has been a life and physical sciences research program that was dramatically reduced in both scale and scope, with the result that the agency is poorly positioned to take full advantage of the scientific opportunities offered by the now fully equipped and staffed ISS laboratory, or to effectively pursue the scientific research needed to support the development of advanced human exploration capabilities.

Although its review has left it deeply concerned about the current state of NASA’s life and physical sciences research, the Committee for the Decadal Survey on Biological and Physical Sciences in Space is nevertheless

_____________

* These programs’ accomplishments are described in several National Research Council (NRC) reports—see for example, Assessment of Directions in Microgravity and Physical Sciences Research at NASA (The National Academies Press, Washington, D.C., 2003).

Page 2
Suggested Citation:"Summary." National Research Council. 2011. Recapturing a Future for Space Exploration: Life and Physical Sciences Research for a New Era. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. doi: 10.17226/13048.×

Save
Cancel
convinced that a focused science and engineering program can achieve successes that will bring the space community, the U.S. public, and policymakers to an understanding that we are ready for the next significant phase of human space exploration. The goal of this report is to lay out steps whereby NASA can reinvigorate its partnership with the life and physical sciences research community and develop a forward-looking portfolio of research that will provide the basis for recapturing the excitement and value of human spaceflight—thereby enabling the U.S. space program to deliver on new exploration initiatives that serve the nation, excite the public, and place the United States again at the forefront of space exploration for the global good. This report examines the fundamental science and technology that underpin developments whose payoffs for human exploration programs will be substantial, as the following examples illustrate:

• An effective countermeasures program to attenuate the adverse effects of the space environment on the health and performance capabilities of astronauts, a development that will make it possible to conduct prolonged human space exploration missions.

• A deeper understanding of the mechanistic role of gravity in the regulation of biological systems (e.g., mechanisms by which microgravity triggers the loss of bone mass or cardiovascular function)—understanding that will provide insights for strategies to optimize biological function during spaceflight as well as on Earth (e.g., slowing the loss of bone or cardiovascular function with aging).

• Game changers, such as architecture-altering systems involving on-orbit depots for cryogenic rocket fuels, an example of a revolutionary advance possible only with the scientific understanding required to make this Apollo-era notion a reality. As an example, for some lunar missions such a depot could produce major cost savings by enabling use of an Ares I type launch system rather than a much larger Ares V type system.


• The critical ability to collect or produce large amounts of water from a source such as the Moon or Mars, which requires a scientific understanding of how to retrieve and refine water-bearing materials from extremely cold, rugged regions under partial-gravity conditions. Once cost-effective production is available, water can be transported to either surface bases or orbit for use in the many exploration functions that require it. Major cost savings will result from using that water in a photovoltaic-powered electrolysis and cryogenics plant to produce liquid oxygen and hydrogen for propulsion.

• Advances stemming from research on fire retardants, fire suppression, fire sensors, and combustion in microgravity that provide the basis for a comprehensive fire-safety system, greatly reducing the likelihood of a catastrophic event.

• Regenerative fuel cells that can provide lunar surface power for the long eclipse period (14 days) at high rates (e.g., greater than tens of kilowatts). Research on low-mass tankage, thermal management, and fluid handling in low gravity is on track to achieve regenerative fuel cells with specific energy greater than two times that of advanced batteries.

In keeping with its charge, the committee developed recommendations for research fitting in either one or both of these two broad categories:

1. Research that enables space exploration: scientific research in the life and physical sciences that is needed to develop advanced exploration technologies and processes, particularly those that are profoundly affected by operation in a space environment.

2. Research enabled by access to space: scientific research in the life and physical sciences that takes advantage of unique aspects of the space environment to significantly advance fundamental scientific understanding.

The key research challenges, and the steps needed to craft a program of research capable of facilitating the progress of human exploration in space, are highlighted below and described in more detail in the body of the report. In the committee’s view, these are steps that NASA will have to take in order to recapture a vision of space exploration that is achievable and that has inspired the country, and humanity, since the founding of NASA.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2011. Recapturing a Future for Space Exploration: Life and Physical Sciences Research for a New Era. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.